Title: Electric Field Effect in Atomically Thin Carbon Films

Abstract: We describe monocrystalline graphitic films, which are just a few atoms thick but nonetheless stable under ambient conditions, metallic and of remarkably high quality. The films are found to be a twodimensional semimetal with a tiny overlap between valence and conductance bands and to exhibit a strong ambipolar electric-field effect such that electrons and holes in concentrations up to 10 13 cm -2 and with roomtemperature mobilities ≈10,000 cm 2 /Vs can be induced by applying gate voltage.One-sentence summary: We report a naturally-occurring two-dimensional material -graphene that can be viewed as a gigantic flat fullerene molecule, -describe its electronic properties and demonstrate all-metallic field-effect transistor, which uniquely exhibits ballistic transport at submicron distances even at room temperature.The ability to control electronic properties of a material by externally applied voltage is at the heart of modern electronics. In many cases, it is the so-called electric field effect that allows one to vary the carrier concentration in a semiconductor device and, consequently, change an electric current through it. As the semiconductor industry is nearing the limits of performance improvements for the current technologies dominated by silicon, there is a constant search for new, non-traditional materials whose properties can be controlled by the electric field. The most notable examples of such materials developed recently are organic conductors [1] and carbon nanotubes [2]. It has long been particularly tempting to extend the use of the field effect to metals (e.g., to develop all-metallic transistors that could be scaled down to much smaller sizes and also have the potential to consume less energy and operate at higher frequencies than traditional semiconducting devices [3]). However, this would require atomically thin metal films because the electric field is screened at extremely short distances (<1 nm) and bulk carrier concentrations in metals are large compared to the surface charge that can be induced by the field effect. Films so thin are thermodynamically unstable and become discontinuous already at thicknesses of many nm; so far, this has proved to be an insurmountable obstacle to metallic electronics and no metal or semimetal has been shown to exhibit any notable (>1%) field effect [4].Here we report the electric field effect in a naturally occurring two-dimensional (2D) meterial that we refer to as few-layer graphene (FLG). Graphene is the name given to a single layer of carbon atoms densely packed into a benzene-ring structure. This hypothetical material is widely used to describe properties of many carbon-based materials, including graphite, large fullerenes, nanotubes, etc. (e.g., carbon nanotubes are usually thought of as graphene sheets rolled up into nm-sized cylinders) [5][6][7]. Planar graphene itself has so far been presumed not to exist in the free state, being rather unstable with respect to the formation of curved structures such as soot, fullerenes and nanotubes [5][6][7][8][9][10][11][12][13][14]. Contrary to the common belief, we have been able to prepare graphitic sheets of thicknesses down to a few atomic layers, including single layer graphene, and succeeded in making devices from them and studying their electronic properties. Despite being atomically thin, the films remain of surprisingly high quality so that 2D electronic transport is ballistic at submicron distances. This is truly remarkable, as no other film of similar thickness is known to be even poorly metallic or continuous under ambient conditions. Using FLG, we demonstrate a metallic field-effect transistor, in which the conducting channel can be switched between 2D electron and hole gases by changing gate voltage.The reported graphene films were made by mechanical exfoliation (repeated peeling) of small mesas of highly-oriented pyrolytic graphite as described in the supporting online material [15]. This approach was found to be highly reliable and allowed us to prepare FLG films up to 10 µm in size. Thicker films (d ≥ 3nm) were up to a hundred microns across and visible by the naked eye. Figure 1 shows examples of the prepared films, including single-layer graphene (see also [15]). To study their electronic properties, the films were processed into multi-terminal Hall bar devices placed on top of an oxidized Si substrate so that gate voltage V g could be applied. We have studied more than 60 devices with d <10 nm. In this report, we focus on Science Oct 22 (2004)